---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Document, Reflect and Share.

Throughout the Challenge, Learners document their experience using audio, video, images and photography.
The ongoing collection of content provides the resources for reflection, Informative assessment and the documentation
of the learning process. Creating a plan for managing the content developed during the Challenge is important.

Web-based services such as iCloud, Google Drive, and Dropbox are excellent tools for collecting and organizing these artifacts.
All Learners should keep individual written, audio, or video journals throughout the Challenge. Frequent reflection
prompts allow the Learners to step back and think deeper about the experience. The end of each Phase of the process offers
an opportunity to have the participants reflect.

Reflections can serve a variety of roles during the Challenge, and it is important to explain their purpose at the
very beginning. The role of reflections include:

1.  Private opportunities for the Learners to process their experiences. Examples include a private diary or journal that
    is only visible to the Learner. A goal of Challenge Based Learning is to create reflective Learners, so individual
    reflection should be strongly encouraged.
2. Process reflections made by individuals and groups. During the process, it is valuable to have space where the Learners can privately share reports, ideas, and concerns with teachers and other mentors. Process reflections provide a helpful way for teachers to manage the progress of individuals and groups throughout the experience.
3. Public reflections made by individuals and groups about the experience. Using a blogging platform or social media outlets, the students can inform the world about their experience.
As a culminating event, students can be provided a series of prompts for final reflections about what they learned about the subject matter and the process. They can also use the content collected and reflections to create a documentary about the Challenge from start to finish.

0. Back
